# Population
Initial and projected population input files are required to run Buildstock-Projections. At a minimum, the initial population and one future population file is required, the years of which must extend up to or beyond the projection horizon. This library provides population projections by PUMA for 2030 and 2050, which are generated by Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Additionally, a 2020 initial population file which is generated using a 550,000 sample buildstock.csv from ResStock v3.0 is provided in the [inputs directory](https://github.com/NREL/buildstock-projections/tree/main/resources/inputs/population). Population for years that do not have a population file will be estimated with a 2nd-order regression using the "known" population data.
## File format
Population file names must be in the form of `population_<year>.csv` where \<year\> is the initial or future year. Population inputs must currently by written by PUMA, following the notation used in ResStock as shown in the example below.

[**population_by_PUMA_2020.csv**](https://github.com/NREL/buildstock-projections/blob/main/resources/inputs/population/population_by_PUMA_2020.csv):
| PUMA        | Population  |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| AL, 00100  | 183768       |
| AL, 00200 | 178808        |
| ...         | ...         |
| WY, 00500 | 109864        |

## Generating Input Files
It is important to ensure that the initial population file used aligns with the initial buildstock.csv. The default initial population uses ResStock v3.0, to ensure that the buildstock.csv you inputted aligns with the population file, you can delete the 2020 file from [this directory](https://github.com/NREL/buildstock-projections/tree/main/resources/inputs/population), or point to a different directory without the initial population, and the file will be automatically generated based on the buildstock.csv. Alternatively, you can use the `PopulationEstimate.generate_population_file()` method in the [population_estimate](https://github.com/NREL/buildstock-projections/blob/main/buildstockprojections/population_estimate.py) module. 


